# NTT-RVV-CHES2025
NTT vectorization for RISC-V Vector (RVV) - CHES2025

# Cloning
It is recommended that the project is cloned with the `--recurse-submodules` option, to fetch OpenFHE as well. Otherwise, it will be necessary to `init` and `update` the submodules.

# Patching OpenFHE
After the OpenFHE submodule has been initialized, it must be patched to include the required changes. To do so, simply run the `patch-openfhe.sh` script from this repository's root directory.

# RISC-V Vector Compiler
The provided code makes use of the [EPI Vector Intrinsics](https://admin.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/doc/intrinsics/EPI/epi-intrinsics.html), and therefore requires an RVV 1.0 EPI LLVM compiler toolchain. The easiest way to obtain this is to run the `download-toolchain.sh` script from the repository's root, which will download a version of the EPI cross-compilation toolchain that is compatible with gem5.

To set the environment variables `CC/CXX` with the appropriate cross-compilers, simply run `source set-compilers.sh`.

### Other compilers
Other compiler toolchains can be obtained at [BSC's FTP server](https://ssh.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/). For compiling natively (on a RISC-V machine), look for a `llvm-EPI-*-toolchain-native` toolchain.

# Compilation
To compile the vectorized NTT/INTT implementations, `cd` into `ntt/`, and run `make`. This will create `ntt/bin/ntt-rvv.o`, which will need to be linked with any binaries that make use of OpenFHE. It will also statically compile a simple speedup test binary, `ntt/bin/test`.

OpenFHE is compiled normally, after patching it and sourcing the `set-compilers.sh` script. You may want to specify an alternative install location, which does not require sudo. Building static libraries will also facilitate compiling binaries for gem5 simulation. This is done by configuring with `cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/your/path -DBUILD_STATIC=ON ..`. More information about OpenFHE installation can be found [in the respective documentation](https://openfhe-development.readthedocs.io/en/latest/sphinx_rsts/intro/installation/linux.html).

`example-ofhe-app` contains an application compiled with OpenFHE and the custom RVV code, and shows how to link the `ntt-rvv.o` object. A static build is also recommended for gem5 compatibility.

# Simulation
You may use [gem5](https://github.com/gem5/gem5) (version >= 24.1.0.2) to simulate the basic test `ntt/bin/test` or the `neural-net` app generated by `example-ofhe-app`. As outlined in the paper, gem5 previously had an issue with false dependencies on dummy registers, a fix for which is made available in [this fork of gem5](https://github.com/Alexandre425/gem5/tree/vlstride-microop), the `vlstride-microop` branch in particular. This version should provide the same results as the paper, and is stable. Note that the `neural-net` was designed for the FPGA platform, and thus will take multiple hours to run in gem5.

After you've downloaded and [built gem5](https://www.gem5.org/documentation/general_docs/building), you can use the provided gem5 model: `gem5.opt gem5-model/main.py <static_executable>`.

# Example usage
```sh
# Clone repo and cd into it
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/hpc-ulisboa/NTT-RVV-CHES2025
cd NTT-RVV-CHES2025
# Patch the OpenFHE submodule with the modifications
./patch-openfhe.sh
# Download RISC-V cross-compiler toolchain and set env vars
./download-toolchain.sh
source set-compilers.sh

# Make a build directory in OpenFHE
cd openfhe-development/
mkdir build
cd build
# Configure cmake, set the install directory to <project_root>/install/, build static libraries
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../../install -DBUILD_STATIC=ON ..
# Compile with 8 cores, install
make -j 8
make install

# Build the RVV NTT code
cd ../../ntt
make

# Build the example OpenFHE app
cd ../example-ofhe-app
mkdir build
cd build
# Built statically for gem5 simulation
cmake -DBUILD_STATIC=ON ..
make

# Simulate with gem5 (assumes you have added the gem5 binary to your PATH)
cd ../../
gem5.opt gem5-model/main.py ntt/bin/test
# This test will take a long time
gem5.opt gem5-model/main.py example-ofhe-app/build/neural-net
```