README.md, before:

# NTT-RVV-CHES2025
NTT vectorization for RISC-V Vector (RVV) - CHES2025

# RISC-V Vector Compiler
The provided code makes use of the [EPI Vector Intrinsics](https://admin.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/doc/intrinsics/EPI/epi-intrinsics.html), and therefore requires an RVV 1.0 EPI LLVM compiler toolchain. The easiest way to obtain this is to run the `download-toolchain.sh` from the repository's root, which will download the latest version of the EPI cross-compilation toolchain.

### Other compilers
Other compiler toolchains can be obtained at (BSC's FTP server)[https://ssh.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/]. For compiling natively (on a RISC-V machine), look for a `llvm-EPI-development-toolchain-native` toolchain.

# Compilation
To compile the vectorized NTT/INTT implementations, `cd` into `ntt/`, and run `make`. This will create `ntt/bin/ntt-rvv.o`, which will need to be linked with any binaries that make use of OpenFHE

To compile OpenFHE, first set the environment variables to use the EPI toolchain. This can be done with the provided script, after the toolchain has been downloaded: `source set-compilers.sh`. You may then compile OpenFHE normally.

Commit message:

added OpenFHE patch and patching script

README.md, after:

# NTT-RVV-CHES2025
NTT vectorization for RISC-V Vector (RVV) - CHES2025

# Cloning
It is recommended that the project is clones with the `--recurse-submodules` option, to fetch OpenFHE as well. Otherwise, it will be necessary to `init` and `update` the submodules.

# Patching OpenFHE
After the OpenFHE submodule has been initialized, it must be patched to include the required changes. To do so, simply run the `patch-openfhe.sh` script from this repository's root directory.

# RISC-V Vector Compiler
The provided code makes use of the [EPI Vector Intrinsics](https://admin.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/doc/intrinsics/EPI/epi-intrinsics.html), and therefore requires an RVV 1.0 EPI LLVM compiler toolchain. The easiest way to obtain this is to run the `download-toolchain.sh` script from the repository's root, which will download the latest version of the EPI cross-compilation toolchain.

### Other compilers
Other compiler toolchains can be obtained at (BSC's FTP server)[https://ssh.hca.bsc.es/epi/ftp/]. For compiling natively (on a RISC-V machine), look for a `llvm-EPI-development-toolchain-native` toolchain.

# Compilation
To compile the vectorized NTT/INTT implementations, `cd` into `ntt/`, and run `make`. This will create `ntt/bin/ntt-rvv.o`, which will need to be linked with any binaries that make use of OpenFHE.

To compile OpenFHE, first set the environment variables to use the EPI toolchain. This can be done with the provided script, after the toolchain has been downloaded: `source set-compilers.sh`. You may then compile OpenFHE normally.

`example-ofhe-app` contains an application compiled with OpenFHE and the custom RVV code, and shows how to link the `ntt-rvv.o` object.
